[MAKISHIMA, KOGAMI] "As though
we are atop living stilts
which continuously grow,
occasionally towering over
even church belfries,
until eventually, walking
becomes difficult and dangerous.
And at last, they fall."
[SEM]
They're coming.
[SEM] Three clicks left,
four clicks right.
[SEM] One click left,
two clicks right.
Now.
[SEM]
You did it, Kogami.
[MAKISHIMA, KOGAMI] "I say
that the cruel law of art
is that beings die,
and that we ourselves must die
after we have
exhausted suffering,
so that the grass, not of
oblivion but of eternal life,
should grow,
fertilized by works."
[SAMRIN]
Do an equipment check.
How are the glasses?
All right, I'm downloading
the map and itinerary.
[MA]
No problems. They're working.
[SAMRIN] Don't deviate from
the specified route. Let's go.
[indistinct chattering]
[dog barks]
[ringing]
You have something for me?
[MIYAZAKI]
Well, my friend,
I'm glad to see
you in one piece.
[SAMRIN]
Identity confirmed.
So. You're Mr. Miyazaki.
[MIYAZAKI] That's right.
But turnabout's fair play.
I gotta check you, too.
All right. Say something.
[SAMRIN]
We need a car.
[WATCH DEVICE]
Identity confirmed.
There we go.
Let's talk business.
[SAMRIN] Like I said earlier:
I want an older model car.
The kind produced before
interior cameras were standard.
And I want its
biometric systems hacked
so they show the wrong data.
[MIYAZAKI]
No problem, boys.
So long as you fork over the
cash, your wish is my command.
Cars are clean,
but don't forget.
You still have street scanners.
That's a tip for ya,
since you don't strike me
as a type of guy with
a clear Psycho-Pass.
[MIKA] I'm surprised you
found out about this.
I have information brokers
keep me in the loop.
[MIKA]
Oh.
That's like what they do in
those old detective movies, huh?
What you should be
seeing on your devices
is intel from the pill bug.
This gang has entered
Japan illegally,
but I haven't figured out how.
I count six foreigners
and a Japanese man
who may be a black
market gun runner.
A basic Hue check raised
red flags on all of them.
So I'm pretty sure if we were
to scan them with our Dominators
we'd get the exact same results.
So, what's our
engagement plan, then?
First, we use Drones to
block the parking lot entrance.
Then we split into two teams
and use the emergency stairs
and elevator to go under.
[AKANE]
Scans have already confirmed
there aren't any traps waiting
for us at either entrance.
So, Mister Ginoza
and Ms. Kunizuka
will go with me and
enter from the stairs.
As for you, Inspector. Put two
Drones in the lead position,
then enter from the elevator
with Sugo and Hinakawa.
[MIKA]
Roger that.
[AKANE] My team will
make the first move.
We'll use flash grenades
and then charge in,
putting all of their
attention on us.
At the same time,
Team Shimotsuki will
come from the back.
This way we can
attack on both sides
and hopefully arrest
them in one fell swoop.
[SUGO]
Flash grenades, huh?
That's a pretty cautious
move, Inspector.
[AKANE] According to
the pill bug's report,
they're heavily armed
with automatic rifles.
So then...
If they're able
to counter-attack,
it's likely that some
of us will be injured.
Move with extreme caution.
[GROUP]
Yes, ma'am.
[MIYAZAKI humming]
[MIYAZAKI] Well, it's all there.
Our deal is officially closed.
[SAMRIN grunts]
[MIYAZAKI]
What?
Shit. The Public Safety Bureau.
[AKANE]
CID!
Drop your weapons and surrender!
[DOMINATOR]
Crime Coefficient over 170.
Suspect is a target
for enforcement.
Trigger safety now released.
[MIYAZAKI grunts]
Return fire!
Who are these guys?
They fight like soldiers.
[DOMINATOR]
Crime Coefficient: 310.
Suspect is a target for
enforcement. Lethal eliminator.
[TERRORIST grunts, screams]
[BOTH grunting]
[DOMINATOR]
Crime Coefficient: 326.
Lethal eliminator.
[groans] Son of a--
[DOMINATOR]
Enforcement action required.
[MIYAZAKI groaning]
[TERRORIST grunts]
[SAMRIN grunts]
[BOTH grunt]
[GINOZA grunts]
[DOMINATOR] Target's Threat
Judgment has been reappraised.
Explosives. Destroy Decomposer.
[SAMRIN panting]
[AKANE]
Arrest him!
[KUNIZUKA]
Roger!
[KOMISSA] This is the Criminal
Investigation Department
of the MWPSB.
Please stop all
resistance immediately.
Hand over your weapons to
complete your safe surrender.
This is the
Criminal Investigation--
[AKANE]
It's over!
Drop your weapon.
Put your hands up.
Turn around slowly and face me.
[AKANE grunts]
Don't!
[DOMINATOR]
Crime Coefficient: 293.
Enforcement action required.
[electronic pulse]
[grunts]
[KASEI] You took out a
group of armed criminals
without you or your team
suffering any injuries.
Good work.
The target I hit.
We'll interview him once he's
recovered from the paralyzer.
Do you approve?
[KASEI]
That's fine.
Until then, take it easy.
A group of heavily-armed
criminals are here illegally.
All wearing advanced glasses.
Based on what we've confiscated,
someone with complete knowledge
of our security systems
helped develop them.
[KASEI]
Your point being?
[AKANE] My point is, I think
you're up to something unsavory.
Inspector,
we're moving forward with
a number of new projects.
Whether or not they're "savory"
depends upon how
you look at them.
Yes, I'm sure.
We'll talk after
the interrogation.
[MIKA]
Chief?
Inspector Shimotsuki. Please
come to my office, at once.
[indistinct murmuring]
He proposed to you?
[KAORI]
Yup.
However, he's so busy.
You know how work can be.
So the actual wedding
won't be for a while.
You'll love him. I can't wait
for you two to meet in person!
Uh.
[AKANE chuckles]
I can't believe one of
us is getting married!
Congratulations.
[chuckles]
Thanks, Akane.
[KAORI] We got matched up
through the Sibyl System.
All this time, I'd held off on
using it, but I have to admit,
it did a better job of finding
me a partner than I ever have.
Anyway, it wasn't too long
before we let our parents know.
It hasn't all been smooth.
But ups and downs in love,
that's just normal.
I mean, big picture.
When Sibyl says it's found
the perfect man for you...
It's like...
who am I to argue, right?
[AKANE]
You'll be fine.
[KAORI] We really are blessed
to live in such peaceful times.
And it's all thanks to
where you work. The MWPSB.
[KAORI] Sibyl not only knows
the path to true happiness
for every single person
in Japan, she sees that path
clearer than they could ever
hope to see it themselves.
I'm starting to think, one day,
Sibyl might actually save
everyone in the whole world.
I-I don't know.
[NEWS ORB] And now, we turn
to the Sibyl System
exportation program, which is
providing government assistance
to SEAUn.
Officials tell us
Sibyl's test run
in the SEAUn capital city
of Shambhala Float,
has worked through
its teething problems
and is now fully operational
and running smoothly.
And with this success...
[KAORI]
See? Just like I said.
Now Sibyl's bringing
peace and love to everyone!
[AKANE grunting]
[panting]
[AKANE grunts]
[AKANE]
Where is he?
And what's he doing?
[ringing]
[AKANE groans]
[AKANE grunts]
[AKANE]
Hey, Shion. What's up?
[SHION]
Before I start,
I'm calling you on
a concealed channel.
Don't tell anyone we
had this conversation.
It never happened.
Shimotsuki, she's acting
on the Chief's orders.
[AKANE]
Acting how?
[SHION]
Point is, in my position,
I couldn't say no to her.
You should come
to the office, quick.
[AKANE]
I'm coming now.
Whatever she's asked you to do,
you have to find a way to stall.
[AKANE]
Well? Can you?!
[SHION]
I can't.
It's too late. I'm sorry, Akane.
[AKANE] You did a memory
scoop for the interrogation?
Why would you do that?
[SHION]
Please, don't be mad.
[MIKA]
It was the Chief's orders.
Analyst Karanomori
was only doing her job.
The memory scoop confirmed
he's a latent criminal.
It's not like it's illegal.
Just unprecedented.
[sighs]
Oh, no.
[MIKA] We did use
some neurological drugs
in order to improve
brain wave detection.
[AKANE gasps]
We're talking about
armed illegal aliens.
That's a major threat.
He was a latent criminal.
Civil rights aren't a big
concern in a case like this one.
And the procedure was a success.
[AKANE]
It was?
I'm glad you came.
The Chief wants to see you.
[AKANE] Why did you
order Inspector Shimotsuki
to do that scoop?
[KASEI]
I'm investigating the case.
[AKANE]
That's ridiculous!
[KASEI] It's necessary...
under the circumstances.
Here, look at this.
[gasps]
[KASEI] You know who
this man is, don't you?
[KASEI] If memory serves,
he was your first subordinate.
[gasps]
[KASEI]
Those foreign terrorists
you apprehended and
we "interrogated."
We found memories of them
working closely with this man,
who went AWOL three years ago.
Don't you find that interesting?
I believe that in
the intervening years,
Shinya Kogami has turned
completely to crime,
and now terrorism.
We also found how they were able
to enter Japan. It was SEAUn.
The illegals we captured
were heavily involved
in anti-government
terrorism in that region.
We have high level ties to
the Southeast Asian UN now.
We're exporting Sibyl.
That's right. As a test to see
if Sibyl can remotely monitor
people thousands of miles away,
they've built a special
administrative district.
The whole of their capital city,
the man-made island
of Shambhala Float.
Of course, the mainland is still
in a state of internal conflict.
And increasingly,
the Drones responsible
for defending Shambhala Float
are coming under fire
and getting shot down.
[KASEI] This man resembles
Kogami quite a bit, too.
There are some hunters
who work with such abandon
there ceases to
be any difference
between them and
the prey they hunt.
We don't know how he escaped
Japan three years ago,
but suppose that
really is Kogami
hiding out in the
turmoil of the SEAUn.
And using it as a base
from which to send
armed terrorists here.
It's a good way to
attack the Sibyl System.
Don't you agree, Inspector?
But Enforcer Kogami
would never do that.
[KASEI]
Then how do you explain
this brainwave
composite picture?
Kogami may've crossed
paths with them.
Maybe he does have a connection
to the terrorist group.
But that said, we still
have no definitive proof
he's become a criminal himself.
Our next step should
be an investigation
to uncover the truth.
[AKANE] It didn't take
long to figure out
the country you guys came from.
Why'd you come to
Japan from SEAUn?
Does it have something to do
with the Japanese government
exporting the Sibyl
System to you?
[AKANE]
If you won't answer that,
maybe you can tell
me about this man.
And if you refuse to talk
to me, someone else will.
Ask whoever you want, lady.
No one's talking to you.
[AKANE]
Is that so?
You're the insane ones.
You lost sight of true justice
when you handed over our
fates to a computer oracle.
[MA] Whatever you get out of us
won't make sense to you, anyway.
[AKANE grunts]
[SAIGA] Would Shinya Kogami
provide his talents
to a group of terrorists?
[AKANE]
Yes. Not leading them, though.
More like, serving
as a consultant.
Helping to organize them,
offering advice
on their strategy.
Do you think Kogami is capable
of being something like that?
[SAIGA] So... basically
a kind of inspiration,
like Shogo Makishima.
[AKANE]
Yes.
[SAIGA] I really want
to say that's impossible.
But I think my fond memories
for Kogami may be
clouding that judgment.
[SAIGA] Given what you've
said of his recent actions,
I can't predict his
behavior anymore.
[AKANE]
But...
[SAIGA] Some people try to
find meaning in their lives
by fitting themselves
into a mold,
or role they can
play in society.
And, in turn, that's why you see
so many devote their
lives to their work.
[SAIGA] Kogami used to live this
way when he was an Enforcer.
But, while chasing
after a target
who didn't fit into society
at all, that being Makishima,
he, too, ultimately
broke free from a mold.
The mold that was his duty.
[KASEI] Hm? You're applying
for an investigation abroad?
[AKANE]
Yes.
[KASEI]
You're going to SEAUn yourself?
Security in the Shambhala
Float special district
is run by the Sibyl System.
That is to say,
police authority there
lies with the Ministry of
Welfare here in Japan.
So. You'll find your
actions legally protected
by right of the
Public Safety Bureau.
A subsidiary of the Ministry.
One catch.
Outside the special district,
your privileges won't matter.
Because outside the walls
of Shambhala Float,
they respect no law.
Your investigation of Kogami
will have to be an
independent endeavor.
Do you understand?
I know the risk.
[KASEI] We have a flight
leaving for SEAUn
early tomorrow morning.
It's a transport jet carrying
precision equipment.
So... How many
guards would you like?
[AKANE]
I'm fine by myself.
[KASEI]
To be frank,
considering the relationship
between you and "us,"
your traveling alone is ideal.
[GINOZA]
For the record,
they denied my request
to go with you.
That's no surprise.
Sending an Inspector overseas
is already unusual enough.
An Enforcer's where
they draw the line.
[GINOZA]
I need a favor.
Yeah, sure.
If you do find Shinya.
Go right up to him and
punch him in the face for me.
I'm not gonna hit him.
Why? Uh...
If I find him, I'll arrest him
and bring him back to you.
Then you can have the fun
of working him over
yourself, Mister Ginoza.
[GINOZA chuckles]
I can't tell if
you've really changed,
or if you're the same
person you always were.
A mystery wearing
an Inspector's jacket.
[CREW] You're the lady from
the Ministry of Welfare, right?
Welcome aboard.
Thanks for taking
me on last minute.
It's been a while since we've
moved cargo with a pulse,
let alone a cute girl.
[SAIGA] Despite countless
cultures' best efforts,
many different order and value
systems have disappeared
into chaos over the millennia.
The common thread
in those failures
being that most people feel
compelled to live like animals,
allowing themselves to
be ruled by their desires.
Your choice is to
be either tamed
within the Sibyl System's cage,
or to live in a state
of nature and be free
by committing yourself only
to the laws of the jungle.
Neither is ideal.
A place where man can maintain
his ideology and his dignity
no longer exists in our world.
In this setting, letting
instinct and willpower
alone be your guide, to take
control of your own fate
and live under your
own value system
must seem like the most
intoxicating of lures.
Especially to those who're
driven into such a corner
that they've even become willing
to commit crimes and
acts of terror. Right?
[SAIGA]
That is the paradigm
our old antagonist,
Shogo Makishima, experienced.
And something that Kogami showed
us when he finally caught up
to his prey in the field
that day, and killed him.
[AKANE]
Yeah.
So. Do they know your secret?
Does the SEAUn
know your true form?
--[KASEI] Of course not.
--[AKANE gasps]
How could we reveal such
a secret to foreign countries
when we can't even
do it in our own?
Right now, we've only given
two technologies to the SEAUn.
Street equipment for them
to measure cymatic scans
in the people, and
special network bandwidth
for that scan data to
be sent back to Japan.
We're not sending Dominators,
nor are they allowed
to use them,
and security is
maintained not by us,
but by their own Union
Military Police force.
As far as they know,
the Sibyl System is
nothing but a black box.
In a basement server
room across the ocean.
[AKANE] I'm surprised Chairman
Hang accepted a system
where the main requirement
is he be kept in the
dark on most details.
[KASEI] It just shows
how desperate they are
to restore public safety
as quickly as possible.
This'll be good for you.
You'll see for yourself
how hard it is
for countries outside Japan
to maintain internal peace.
And with that view
will come understanding
of the great value to be had
in controlling society
with the Sibyl System.
[ding]
[PILOT] We should have you on
the ground in about 15 minutes.
Please fasten your seatbelts
as we begin our final approach
into SEAUn
International Airport.
I'm Nicholas Wong, ma'am.
I'm Captain of the Union
Military Police force.
And I assume you must be
Inspector Akane Tsunemori
from the Japanese Ministry
of Health and Welfare.
I am.
Then welcome to the
Southeast Asian UN.
We're happy to have
both you and Sibyl.
[NICHOLAS]
Does our country shock you?
[AKANE]
No.
From what I hear, it's like
this now in every country.
Except Japan.
What about the area
we're in now? Is it unsafe?
Well, it's certainly better
than it used to be.
We've been able to eliminate
all the major military factions.
We believe the civil
war is nearing an end.
[AKANE]
From how you word that,
it sounds like the
war's still going.
And you would be correct.
[NICHOLAS]
There are still some dissidents
waging their
delusional rebellion
against Chairman
Hang's government.
[NICHOLAS] Just ahead is the
Shambhala Special District,
where Sibyl's running
on a trial basis.
[NICHOLAS] Only those with
Hues and Crime Coefficients
certified "normal" are allowed
to enter the District.
[knocking]
[MOTHER] Please, sir,
let us enter...
And we owe it all to
your country's help.
[MOTHER]
Please! I have a baby!
[NICHOLAS]
Keep driving.
[MOTHER] Help us!
We can't last long out here!
No, let us in!
--[SOLDIER A grunts]
--[MOTHER yelps]
[SOLDIER B]
Move and we shoot!
--[SOLDIERS] Get back! Hey!
--[CROWD chatters]
[gunfire]
Don't let it bother
you, Inspector.
This happens all the time.
[ANNOUNCER]
This bus is reserved
for residents who are
authorized by the Sibyl System.
[AKANE] Who are those
people wearing collars?
[NICHOLAS] Those sad-looking
souls are latent criminals.
[gasps]
[NICHOLAS]
Rather than locking them up,
we give them freedom of movement
and that device to monitor
their Psycho-Passes.
If their Hue clouds,
we'll instantly measure
their Crime Coefficients.
Depending on that number,
the collars will then inject
either anesthesia or poison.
[NICHOLAS] We can't have those
with high Crime Coefficients
living among the general public,
what with the impact that can
have on Area Stress Levels.
Of course, since we
haven't been able to build
big isolation facilities
like you have in Japan,
this is only
a temporary measure.
I see that some
of them are soldiers.
[NICHOLAS]
Yes,
in a sense, they fill
the role of Enforcers.
But their orders all
come from officers
who must maintain a clear Hue.
Officers are kind of
like our Inspectors.
One more piece of advice,
Ms. Tsunemori.
What is it?
During your stay,
if you leave the
Shambhala Special District,
or go out to inspect
a government facility,
please make sure that
you have one of our guards
accompanying you at all
times for your protection.
At all times? Really?
Is that a problem?
No.
[AKANE]
I'm Akane Tsunemori,
Inspector for the Japanese
Ministry of Welfare,
Public Safety Division.
[HANG]
And I'm Chuang Hang.
[AKANE]
It's an honor.
I never expected that the
chairman of the SEAUn himself
would want to meet with me.
[HANG] Take it as a compliment
of how interested we are
in you and your country,
Miss Tsunemori.
You must be tired from
your long journey.
Please, take a seat right here.
[AKANE]
Thank you.
We're conducting an
international investigation
and I'm hoping you can help.
Yes, by all means,
I'll do what I can.
The man you're after
is a terrorist working
for the guerillas?
Yes, that's the crime
we suspect him of.
Well. Around here our method
of dealing with guerillas
is to actively suppress them.
We don't simply "investigate."
Of course, as I said,
we're happy to help.
I just wanted to be clear
that conditions in this country
are different from what
you find in Japan.
Do try to remember this
during your time here.
[AKANE]
Of course, sir.
That's good.
Colonel Wong, see to
our guest's every need.
Make sure she's taken care of.
Yes sir, Mister Chairman.
[AKANE]
Open case.
Uh.
[AKANE chuckles]
[AKANE]
That's Shion, all right.
[AKANE sighs]
[breathes deeply]
[AKANE] Chuang Hang,
former army general.
One of several
high-ranking officers
who led factions during
12 years of civil war,
fighting each other
for SEAUn control.
Hang gained the upper hand
by securing support from Japan.
And to do that, he promised
to establish a special district
to be governed by
the Sibyl System.
Two years ago,
he created the new assembly
and promptly got himself
elected its chairman.
But, not everyone was happy
with a military faction
forming the new government.
These guerillas have
continued to fight
and make the country
unstable to this day.
[AKANE] The terrorist group
that came to Japan
likely belonged to a group
of these anti-Hang guerillas.
[AKANE]
It's obvious his grip on power
is only as strong as the
Japanese government's support.
[AKANE]
So is that why
Tokyo became a terror
target for the rebels?
[chiming]
Uh.
Hello, my name is Yeo,
I'll be your personal assistant.
If there's anything you need,
I've been sent here
to serve you and only you,
so don't hesitate to ask, okay!
[chuckles]
[YEO]
Are you hungry?
Breakfast? Lunch? Dinner?
Whatever you like.
Oh, and they wanted me
to remind you again
that if you plan on
leaving your room,
you're free to go
wherever you like in SEAUn.
So long as you don't
go unaccompanied
to any major facilities or
the area beyond the bridge.
[AKANE]
That won't be a problem.
[chuckles]
[YEO] Oh, and arguably
the most important item:
In a week, the government
will put a hold
on all citizens buying
and selling alcohol.
So if you'd like some,
now would be time.
[AKANE]
Uh...
Yes?
Would you be offended if
I asked you a personal question?
[YEO] Of course not. I just
hope I'm able to answer it.
Do you have a happy life living
in the Shambhala district?
Uh... Why, of course!
Every person in
the special district
appreciates having a safe life
thanks to Chairman Hang.
It's because of him that
we have the Sibyl System.
It wasn't that long ago that
there wasn't a single safe place
to live in the entire SEAUn!
[indistinct murmuring]
[trashcans rattling]
[CROWD] Hey, what's going on?
Are they going to fight?
[AKANE]
Uh.
[SOLDIER]
What's going on--?
[WAITER] Don't be mad
at me. He did it!
It's not my fault, I swear!
[grunting]
[OPERATOR A]
Parvati Drone.
Coming up all green.
Let's move out.
Damn it.
If you don't mind, I'd like
to ride along on patrol.
[NICHOLAS] By all means,
make yourself comfortable.
But if we encounter hostility,
stay out of the way
and don't touch anything.
Of course.
You won't know I'm here.
So, can you tell me
where this convoy's headed?
Fifty kilometers north of here,
to the ruins of the old
SEAUn capitol city.
It's normally a ghost
town, but yesterday
our advance team delivered
a promising bit of intel.
The guerrillas have moved in
and made it their new base
for launching
anti-government attacks.
[SOLDIER]
Back! Get back!
[AKANE] You guys are leasing
Japanese security Drones
specifically to patrol
Shambhala, right?
So why change their mission
and put them on the
anti-guerrilla beat so far away?
Hasn't hunting latent
criminals taught you
that the best defense
is a good offense?
This doesn't violate the
spirit of our agreement.
[NICHOLAS] In our quest
to transform our country
into a modern society, Shambhala
Float is only the beginning.
[NICHOLAS] Eventually, the Sibyl
System's management will extend
to every corner of
the Southeast Asian UN.
But we'll only succeed
if we're able to extinguish
the guerrilla movements
as quickly as possible,
and then measure the
Psycho-Passes of every citizen.
Fire when ready, men.
Roger that, sir.
All vehicles in the convoy,
switch to battle mode.
You're "go" to attack.
[AKANE grunts]
[GUERRILLA]
Go! Go! Move!
[GUERRILLA yelps]
[GUERRILLA panting]
[AKANE]
That's awful.
[NICHOLAS] If the cymatic
scan shows no threat,
the safety on the
cannons will come on.
Of course, the cannon fire must
mean their crime coefficients
are reading higher than the
baseline for latent criminals.
There's no way that
a Psycho-Pass measured
in a situation like this
will give an accurate number!
Either we kill them,
or they kill us.
Uh.
[grunts]
And like I've said,
this country doesn't exactly
have the mental health
facilities needed
to rehabilitate them.
The only people that remain
will be those needed
for the new SEAUn.
[GUERRILLA gunts]
[GUERRILLA groaning]
[NICHOLAS]
They are... dregs.
The undesirables left over
from the great civil
war that they lost.
[grunts]
[OPERATOR A]
Skandas activated. Moving out.
[OPERATOR C] Signal loss on
the comm link with Ganga Two.
Looks like it's been shot down.
[NICHOLAS gasps]
[AKANE gasps]
[OPERATOR C] Signal loss
with Three and with One!
Someone's shooting
our birds outta the sky!
Maybe it's your man.
Start the counterattack.
Do exactly as I told you.
[KOGAMI grunts]
[GUERRILLAS] Run! We don't
have much time! Move it!
[KOGAMI grunts]
[OPERATOR A] We've lost control
of the Ganeshas and Skandas.
It was right as they
closed in on their targets!
[NICHOLAS]
It's not a problem.
Deactivate all the
Drones and then reboot,
but I want them switched
into stand-alone mode.
We won't be able to measure
their Psycho-Passes,
but as long as we can identify
friend from foe, we'll be fine.
And what if the guerrillas
take advantage of
the Drones' down time?
[OPERATOR B gasps]
[GUERRILLAS yelping]
[OPERATOR B] All surviving
units have rebooted.
Good. Start the
counter-attack.
And send in all reserve units,
except for the guard vehicles.
[GUERRILLA yelps]
[GUERRILLAS whimpering]
[AKANE gasps]
[grunts]
[NICHOLAS grunts]
[NICHOLAS]
What are you doing?
What I came here to do.
[NICHOLAS]
You can't go out there alone!
Hey. I need you to withdraw
your troops right now.
I'll take the SEAUn forces.
We've managed to
bloody their noses,
but we can't let
ourselves get pinned down.
Otherwise, this'll turn
into a massacre.
[distant gunfire]
[clattering]
[footsteps]
[sighs]
[BOTH grunting]
[AKANE grunts]
It's been a long time,
Mister Kogami.
Gotta admit.
I never thought you would
come this far, Inspector.
You're under arrest.
[KOGAMI]
Arrest?
Haven't you paid attention
to what's happening here?
[AKANE] We captured
SEAUn terrorists in Japan.
Did you send them?
Slow down. What are
you talking about?
[gasps]
Wait.
[KOGAMI grunts]
[AKANE yelps]
[BOTH grunt]
[explosion]
What are you gonna do?
You can either arrest me,
or let me go.
Those are your options!
[panting]
Jump!
[KOGAMI grunts]
[AKANE gasps]
I've made my choice.
I've decided that
I'm coming with you.
All right.
But it's just temporary,
as part of my investigation.
That's understood, Inspector.
[OPERATOR A]
Colonel!
[NICHOLAS]
From now on,
make sure the Inspector is
identified as an enemy.
But sir--
[NICHOLAS]
This is a battlefield.
Nothing will stop our mission.
[OPERATOR B]
It'll take some time.
We have to send the system
back to headquarters first
to get the okay
for reclassification.
--[NICHOLAS growls]
--Otherwise, we could--
[KOGAMI] Bullet wounds to
abdomen. No abdominal hernia.
Pelvis, normal. Pubic symphysis,
normal. Lumbar spine, normal.
[GUERILLA groans]
Femoral is normal.
Limbs, normal.
Gimme a neck brace.
[KOGAMI grunts]
[GUERILLA whimpers, yelps]
[GUERILLA groaning]
Load up. We gotta keep moving.
[KOGAMI sighs]
What are you really
doing here, Kogami?
And be honest with me.
[KOGAMI]
What's it looks like I'm doing?
I'm helping to bring
real democracy and
freedom to this country.
So, after this mission,
what's your next move?
Back to the guerrilla basecamp.
[KOGAMI]
By the way, Inspector.
Come on. Stop calling me that.
All right. Have you
met Chairman Hang?
Oh, yeah. I talked
to him yesterday.
And? Don't you think there's
something strange there?
What?
I wonder what his Crime
Coefficient would be
if we scanned him.
After all, he's a dictator.
[HANG]
So the mission was a failure
and our Japanese Inspector
Tsunemori is missing?
[NICHOLAS]
Her conduct was tantamount
to aiding the guerrillas.
She acted completely
without authorization!
[HANG]
Be that as it may,
she was a foreign
guest in your custody.
This is a question
of responsibility.
[NICHOLAS]
But, sir.
[HANG]
Relax. I'm joking!
The Japanese government's aware
of the civil turmoil currently
affecting our country.
They wouldn't have sent a
young female Inspector alone
into the middle of a warzone,
if her life really
mattered to them.
[NICHOLAS] Still, this
situation is regrettable.
Of course, the other way to
look at this is that she's going
to cause us even more trouble
in the days to come, Colonel.
[NICHOLAS]
What?
[HANG] It's entirely possible
that the Japanese sent her here
because they're confident
she can survive
in conditions like our little
guerrilla warfare problem.
I'm very interested in
seeing how this plays out.
[ringing]
[NICHOLAS]
I have an urgent job for you.
Of course, I'll make
it worth your while.
I'm very grateful, Nicholas.
We have more time than
we know what to do with.
[NICHOLAS] Near Siem Reap,
there's a guerrilla stronghold
currently harboring
two Japanese citizens.
One is a member of the group.
The other, an Inspector
from Tokyo,
who was sent here to arrest him.
I want them both taken care of.
The guerrilla's one thing,
but an Inspector presents
all sorts of problems.
You honestly think killing a
Japanese agent is a smart play?
[NICHOLAS] She looks as
though she may get in the way.
She's a hazard.
[RUTAGANDA]
Here we go.
[RUTAGANDA] Since you
got involved with Sibyl,
all we get are
messy jobs like this.
[NICHOLAS]
It's thanks to Sibyl
that we have this paradise
we call Shambhala.
Even someone like you could
live a civilized life here,
if you wanted.
How much longer do you plan
to continue playing savages
on your little island?
[RUTAGANDA]
At the level of the individual,
violence has a
detoxifying effect.
It takes away the
inferiority complexes
and changes the contemplative
and desperate attitudes
of native people.
[RUTAGANDA]
Their self-worth.
Violence has the power
to make them fearless
and, in their own eyes,
restores the dignity
that's been stolen from them.
[NICHOLAS sighs]
What, you're not familiar
with the work of Frantz Fanon?
[NICHOLAS] We're investigating
the precise whereabouts
of the targets. As soon
as we find them--
Yeah, don't worry about it.
We mercenaries have our
own intelligence network
that we can utilize.
Most information can be bought
with money or valuables.
Of course, I'll have to bill you
for the necessary
expenses separately.
All right?
[NICHOLAS]
No problem.
I'm gonna need military
aircraft ground clearance
and IFF recognition codes.
[AKANE] There are children
and elderly here, too?
Good, you're back, Kogami.
Who is she?
It's a long story, but all
you need to know is this:
she's not our enemy.
Trust me. She's my guest.
Hmm. Kogami must have offered
guidance to you, as well.
Guess we're comrades, then.
My name is Sem. I'm the
leader of this group here.
And I'm Akane Tsunemori.
Nice to meet you.
We sustained more
casualties today. I'm sorry.
No. If it weren't for you,
we'd all be dead.
[KOGAMI]
Hey, how's Gino these days?
After what happened,
he became an Enforcer.
[KOGAMI]
I see.
[AKANE] But what are
you doing here, Kogami?
In a place like this?
First, I was just lookin'
for somewhere quiet.
I was exhausted.
But once I strayed outside
the Sibyl System's reach,
just couldn't find peace,
no matter where I went.
Only war and destruction
all across the world.
I thought that I'd trained
myself pretty well,
but it opened my eyes... to
just how soft I really was.
So I learned to survive.
For real this time.
So then why did you
join these guerrillas?
[KOGAMI] Not long after I
arrived here in this country,
Hang established his
self-serving regime,
and the Drones started
hunting down guerrillas.
So, I decided I'd teach the
guerrillas how to fight back.
All of the Drones
are made in Japan.
I know what their weaknesses are
and how to exploit them
to bring 'em down.
[AKANE]
But...
...what is it you
hope to accomplish
by helping these people?
It may not look it now,
but we thought we had a
chance to gain the upper hand.
Although, Hang has bestowed upon
himself the title of Chairman,
in truth, the guy's
nothing but a dictator,
just a common warlord.
In an effort to outmaneuver
all his political rivals,
he joined forces with
Japan's Sibyl System.
[groans]
It was all a smokescreen.
He never cared about
building a paradise.
[KOGAMI] With Sibyl's help,
Hang's faction rose
to become the
predominant military force,
overwhelming the
other warlords.
We thought this would
ultimately lead to his downfall.
See, the Sibyl System is an
extreme form of bureaucracy.
For a dictator, it can
be a total nightmare.
Sure, he may try to
govern on his own,
but everything's controlled
by the system,
leaving him no real authority.
[KOGAMI] We figured it
was only a matter of time
before Hang realized this,
and that when he did,
he would abandon Shambhala Float
before they even
finished construction.
At least, that was our opinion
till about a year ago.
I see. So Hang surprised you.
[KOGAMI]
Yeah.
He surrendered control
over to Sibyl without
putting up a fight.
Built his utopia on the
sea reminiscent of Japan,
and he's still got the
armed Drones going around,
slaughtering the
rebels without mercy.
[PRIEST chanting]
[chanting continues]
[KOGAMI] There's gotta be
something more going on here.
Something between Hang and
Sibyl we're still unaware of.
And until I can figure
out just what it is,
I won't back down.
So, then what, is that
your idea of justice?
Operating out there all
on your own as a vigilante,
bypassing the law
without concern
for who you drag into it?
You sure don't hold back now.
Yeah, well, you haven't
changed at all.
And... that's a relief.
[AKANE] So, you honestly
had nothing to do
with those terrorists who
came over to Japan to attack?
[KOGAMI] We may have
had a couple of guys
who wanted to
retaliate against Japan
as the birthplace of Sibyl.
But when both Sem and I
objected to their proposal,
they all left this camp.
None of those guys
would have been capable
of arranging overseas
travel on their own.
Yeah, that's them.
Samrin, Ma, and Sim.
No question.
[AKANE] They were using
high-level cracking devices
and even had some way
of contacting a fence
in the abolition block.
[AKANE]
Don't you find that odd?
Yeah, definitely.
We have to assume they got
help from someone else.
[GUERRILLA]
Kogami.
[KOGAMI sighs]
Hell of a situation.
We've both waded into
a much deeper swamp
than either of us
could've anticipated.
[KOGAMI] Why don't you
spend the night here?
I can have somebody drop you off
near Shambhala Float
in the morning.
As long as you behave yourself,
no one will hurt you.
Should I bother asking you
to come with me voluntarily?
[KOGAMI chuckles]
[KOGAMI]
Whatever you do,
just don't tell Sem and the
others you're a detective, okay?
They find out you're on
the government side,
they'll be forced
to take action.
[GUERRILLA groaning]
[GUERRILLA grunting]
[GUERILLA groaning]
[GUERRILLA groans]
[GUERRILLA yelps]
We're all clear here.
[RUTAGANDA]
Let's get moving.
[BABANGIDA]
Roger that.
[WEBER]
[KOGAMI sighs]
[AKANE] One of the
terrorists who came to Japan
had a rare paper book with him.
The French novel "In Search
of Lost Time" by Proust.
[KOGAMI]
Probably my personal copy.
Before Samrin left,
he expressed interest.
All this time,
I thought I'd lost it,
but I guess he just
took it with him.
That man, Sem, from earlier,
he said something about you
offering guidance, didn't he?
Which leads me to believe
you're more than a
mere strategic advisor.
They see you as kind of a
spiritual mentor, as well.
[KOGAMI] To be honest, I wish
they wouldn't. That isn't me.
But despite that,
it seems the people here
are perhaps overly influenced
by everything I say and do.
[AKANE] It may not be
intentional on your part,
but you do have a sort of
irresistible magnetism
that draws people in.
Similar to what
Shogo Makishima had.
[KOGAMI sighs]
So what?
Do you see me as being
the same as him?
[AKANE]
You were better than anyone
at getting inside
Makishima's head
and predicting his next move.
Would it really be so surprising
if you shared some of his
talents and characteristics?
Maybe, except for back
when I was in Japan,
my words were never responsible
for leading anybody
astray, were they?
So why is everything
different now?
Because your situation
is different now.
I don't know if you even
realize it, Kogami,
but the position that
you find yourself in here
is a lot like how Shogo
Makishima started out.
[KOGAMI]
Are you saying,
I'm destined to wind up
like Makishima?
[AKANE]
No.
But, I think there will
be more and more people
who will want you to embody
the same traits Makishima did.
Those who harbor anger and
resentment towards society
will expect something from you,
and trust in you to lead them.
You have such an ability
to draw people in,
they might put you on the same
pedestal Makishima was on.
[KOGAMI]
That would be annoying.
[AKANE]
On the other hand,
at least you don't share his
ambition to control people.
And that's, probably the biggest
difference between you and him.
[KOGAMI sighs]
[KOGAMI] If that's what you
think was driving Makishima,
it's no wonder you guys had
such a hard time with him.
[gun fires]
[KOGAMI, AKANE gasping]
[KOGAMI grunts]
[GUARD] Enemy attack! Flames
rising from Bayon's direction!
Enemy attack! Flames rising
from Bayon's direction!
Acquiring target position.
[grunts]
[GUERRILLAS yelling]
[GUERRILLAS grunting]
[GUERRILLAS yelping]
Weber. Babangida.
Keep pushing forward.
[WEBER, BABANGIDA]
Copy that.
[RUTAGANDA grunts]
[GUERRILLAS chatter]
[GUERRILLAS gasping, yelping]
[GUERRILLA groaning]
Yulia, have you
located the target yet?
[YULIA]
No, sir.
[GUERRILA grunts]
[RUTAGANDA]
Damn!
These amateur peons are even
weaker than I was expecting.
Bun, are you there?
[RUTAGANDA] That's enough.
Search for the target.
[BUN]
Roger.
[CROWD shouting, whimpering]
[KOGAMI grunts]
These guys aren't
attacking like the military!
How are they different?
[KOGAMI]
Prob'ly special forces
with combat training that
doesn't depend on Drones.
Got a bad feeling about this.
[KOGAMI]
Sem!
Where's the ECM?
They have the device now!
Those bastards are
one step ahead of us!
Sem!
--We gotta help her escape!
--[AKANE gasps]
[AKANE]
Kogami, wait!
I want you to get out, at least.
We'll try and keep 'em busy.
What? No, I'm not
leaving you behind!
Continue the investigation!
You could uncover the
truth about Chairman Hang!
Which might just
give us a chance.
Get to Shambhala
and keep digging!
But--
Don't worry 'bout me.
Come on, you really think
I'll go down that easily?
[KOGAMI] And you gotta
survive this, too, Akane.
How else you gonna arrest me?
Hm.
[gasps]
Okay.
Sem!
Run, Kogami! Hurry!
[KOGAMI]
Sem! Get out of there!
I won't abandon a
friend like that!
[KOGAMI grunting]
--[GUERRILLA grunts]
--[SEM] No! Hang on!
Sem!
[KOGAMI grunting]
[KOGAMI grunts]
[BUN] Target Delta
identified. Opening fire!
[RUTAGANDA] Hold on.
What about Target Juliet?
[explosion]
[RUTAGANDA]
Signal lost. She's getting away.
[BUN]
Do you want me to chase her?
[RUTAGANDA]
No, it's too late.
Capture Delta alive
instead. Don't kill him.
I'll be right there.
[BUN]
Understood.
[KOGAMI grunts]
[YULIA grunts]
[KOGAMI grunting]
[gasps]
[KOGAMI grunts]
[KOGAMI grunting]
[KOGAMI yelps]
[KOGAMI, BUN grunting]
[KOGAMI gasps]
[KOGAMI grunting]
--[KOGAMI yelps]
--[RUTAGANDA grunts]
[KOGAMI groaning]
[RUTAGANDA]
You're really something.
[KOGAMI gasps]
If you don't finish me off now,
you're only going
to regret it later.
[KOGAMI groans]
[RUTAGANDA] Well as terrifying
as you make that sound,
we have some important
questions to ask you.
[NICHOLAS] You may be an
important guest here, Inspector,
but there are limits to our
patience and hospitality.
Oh, really, I'm an
important guest?
Is that why you
tried to kill me?
We had no choice. You were
working with the guerrillas.
[AKANE] That was part
of my investigation.
[NICHOLAS] It would be wise
to recognize the fact
that you're in our country
now and under our rules.
We'll be deporting you back to
Japan on the next flight out.
You can keep those cuffs around
your wrists as a souvenir.
[HANG]
Colonel.
You know better than to
make a decision like this
without consulting me first.
Chairman Hang, sir?
I see no reason for us to
cut our guest's visit short.
Assign her some guards
and have them take
her back to her room.
But, sir!
[HANG]
Enough!
[grunts]
[HANG] Truth be told, Colonel,
I have some serious concerns
about the ways the
Union Military Police
have been operating lately.
And the last time I checked, I'm
still the Commander in Chief.
[NICHOLAS sighs]
[NICHOLAS]
Yes, sir.
[AKANE]
Now, let's see.
Mh.
[knocking]
[YEO]
Excuse me, Miss Tsunemori.
I saw that you'd returned,
so I was wondering
if you wanted me to
make you some lunch?
Sounds great! Thanks, Miss Yeo.
I'll eat, right after
my shower's done.
[YEO] Yes, ma'am. I'll
get started on it now.
[SHION]
Hm? Akane?
[AKANE]
Hi, Shion.
Can you hear me?
[SHION]
Yeah, loud and clear.
Looks like the program I gave
you is working out okay.
So, what's up?
Is it possible to secretly check
individual Psycho-Pass
diagnostic devices
installed in Shambhala
Float, one by one,
remotely from the MWPSB?
[SHION]
I guess.
If we do it via those pill bugs,
then I don't see why
it wouldn't work.
But what do you hope to learn?
The Sibyl System
is in place there
and should be operating
fine. What's wrong?
[AKANE] I think that maybe
the system isn't being used
in a fair and just manner here.
Look at the ones in
the special district,
especially around the
Military Police facilities.
Check to see how accurate
the cymatic scans they do are.
And let me know as soon
as you find anything.
"Detective's intuition"?
No, it's a little
more than that.
It's a conclusion based
on logical inferences.
[SHION]
All right. Got it.
I'll see what I can do.
[AKANE]
Oh, one more thing.
You know the collars they use
to monitor latent criminals
in the Shambhala
Special District?
Those are made in
Japan, too, right?
So, under MWPSB clearance,
can you access the
code to remove one?
[SHION]
Yeah, no problem.
But could be bad for you. The
Military Police won't be happy.
Oh, we are way past the point
of making a difference there.
Their happiness
doesn't concern me.
[YEO] Your lunch is
ready, Miss Tsunemori.
Thanks, it looks great.
[AKANE]
Don't say anything.
[YEO]
Huh?
[YEO gasps]
[YEO]
My--But how?
[AKANE] Please, remain calm
and listen to me carefully.
I'm going to need
your... uh... your help--
[YEO gasps]
Looks like this is--
[SHION]
Hmm...
[YEO]
I did just as you said!
You'll really remove my
brother's collar now, won't you?
You're entirely
too trusting, my dear.
[AKANE grunts]
[NICHOLAS]
Don't kill the girl yet.
I'll arrange for her to die with
our guerrilla military advisor.
That should avoid any
unnecessary suspicion.
[AKANE] So, it seems like
my assumption was correct.
You aren't even using
the cymatic scans.
[AKANE] Somehow you're
circumventing them.
[NICHOLAS]
Oh?
And what proof do you have?
You just killed someone.
That's all the proof I need.
[NICHOLAS] If the Sibyl System
raises no objection to it,
then an action must be legal.
Isn't that right, Inspector?
[AKANE grunts]
[MAN]
Hey, what'd you get me?
[KOGAMI grunts]
[KOGAMI groaning]
[WEBER chuckkles]
[KOGAMI grunts]
[KOGAMI coughs]
[WEBER]
Hey, did you get it?
[KOGAMI] These aren't...
regular army methods.
Lemme guess: Mercenaries?
[RUTAGANDA]
You surprised me.
The guerrilla military advisor
we've heard so much
about is Japanese.
I thought the only soldiers
left in Japan were scum
who'd had their spines ripped
out by that sham you call Sibyl.
[KOGAMI chuckles]
[KOGAMI]
Why do you think I'm here?
There's no place for
me there anymore.
So you got training to become
a pro, then left the service?
Too bad you turned out to
be a pretty lousy mercenary.
See, you lack the
most important skill,
which is how to pick
the right employer.
[KOGAMI]
Don't try to paint me
as a bloodthirsty
hyena like you!
I'm not in this because I get
off on slaughtering people
like they're nothing
more than animals.
[RUTAGANDA]
Funny.
That's the sort of line I'd only
expect from a former detective.
You wanna slap a pretty label
like "law" or "justice"
on your violent actions?
[RUTAGANDA]
In a failed state,
violence, by necessity,
is privatized.
Because a monopoly on
organized, systematic violence
is the essence of a nation.
[RUTAGANDA] Once violence
spreads everywhere,
it ceases to serve
a political function.
[RUTAGANDA] That's when it
becomes an economic engine
for the state, fueled
by society's rage.
[KOGAMI grunts]
[RUTAGANDA]
Hm.
[KOGAMI groans]
[KOGAMI]
The Wretched of the Earth, huh?
Mercenaries justifying
their actions
with post-colonial philosophy
are annoying as shit.
[KOGAMI groaning]
Oh my. A well-trained
and a well-read fighter?
Now you've really got
my interest piqued.
[KOGAMI groaning]
[KOGAMI yelps]
[RUTAGANDA]
You know, as I understand it,
your friends
would've followed you
all the way to the gates
of Hell and beyond.
Did you inspire them
with platitudes
and some kind of
rousing ideology?
[KOGAMI grunts]
[KOGAMI groans]
Who knows what did it.
[KOGAMI grunting]
Well, whatever they saw in you.
I must admit, you've got
something special going on.
I get a real thrill out
of hearing you talk.
It's nice.
[roars]
[KOGAMI grunts]
[BUN gasps]
[KOGAMI] Thanks, I
appreciate the compliment,
but it'd sound a lot
better coming from her.
Just doesn't sound as
sweet coming from you.
[RUTAGANDA laughs]
[RUTAGANDA] Learn to show
your elders some respect.
Insolent bastard!
[KOGAMI grunts]
[RUTAGANDA]
Still, that talent of yours
is a valuable thing,
my Japanese friend.
In fact, you have all the
makings of a great agitator.
It's a special kind
of charisma you possess
that can instigate anger and
give purpose to resentment.
[RUTAGANDA]
Small though it may be...
...we've got our own
self-governing
community going on here.
[KOGAMI groans]
[RUTAGANDA] And eventually, I
want to gather more soldiers
and form an army of my own.
Now, when the time comes
to put that plan into action,
run-of-the-mill leadership?
That just won't cut it.
We'll need someone
at the forefront
who has the power to inspire
a crowd with his gift of gab.
So. What do ya say?
Will you join us?
I can help you to hone
that talent of yours,
and build a platform from which
you can make the most of it.
[WEBER]
Hey, boss, wait.
[RUTAGANDA] Bear in mind, if
we hand you over to our client
like we were hired to do,
it's a certain death sentence.
You should be grateful that
I'm offering you a reprieve.
It's your only shot at survival.
Forgive me for not
bowing at your feet,
but what you offer, that's
a fate worse than death.
[RUTAGANDA sighs]
[ringing]
[RUTAGANDA]
All right, boys.
Let's get this guy patched up.
[NICHOLAS]
Is he still alive?
The male target?
Yeah. So, can I kill him yet?
[NICHOLAS]
He still has some use.
Bring him to me.
Understood.
[RUTAGANDA chuckles]
I wanted to give
you a little while
to think it over, but, oh well.
Chalk it up to bad
timing, I guess.
[KOGAMI grunts]
[KOGAMI groans]
Kogami.
[NICHOLAS] "During transport,
the Japanese terrorist
who'd aided the guerrillas
lashed out violently,
taking Inspector
Tsunemori hostage
and hijacking a helicopter.
Because we feared he would
target government facilities,
we regrettably had no choice.
We shot them down to
take out the threat."
That's the story we'll present.
[RUTAGANDA]
Seems like a waste
of a perfectly good chopper
just to off two people.
Well, if it's the fault
of an MWPSB Inspector,
we can stick Japan with
the bill for a new one.
I'd like this
taken care of quickly.
All we really need
is to be able to find
their bodies in the wreckage.
So, execute them now.
[AKANE grunting]
[KOGAMI groaning]
[AKANE]
You should know this won't work.
It's way too obvious a cover up!
How gullible do you think
Chairman Hang is?
The Chairman?
Tthe Japanese government
won't take this lying down!
They're gonna investigate
and find out what
really happened here!
What a sad little
bureaucratic pawn.
She could never figure out
what her master was doing
with his right hand.
While the entire time
she was moved by his left.
Miss Tsunemori,
how would you feel
if we told you
everything we're doing
is in complete accordance with
your government's directives?
[AKANE gasps]
[RUTAGANDA]
Isn't that right, Colonel?
After we assassinated
Hang at your request,
I hear it was the Japanese who
provided his doppelgnger.
[AKANE sighs]
[NICHOLAS]
Hey!
That's enough, mercenary,
keep your mouth shut!
Shoot them, now!
[AKANE grunts]
[yelps]
[BUN grunts]
[BUN groaning]
The hell is this?
[NICHOLAS]
It's not me!
[KOMISSA] This is the Criminal
Investigation Department
of the Public Safety Bureau.
Under the authority vested in us
by Sections Three and Five
of the Sibyl System Treaty,
the Japanese government
has assumed control
of all security protocols.
If your Crime Coefficient
exceeds the acceptable value,
you may be eliminated
without warning.
It is recommended
that you not resist.
Please calm yourself so that you
will be mentally stabilized.
This message will now repeat.
This is the Criminal
Investigation Department
of the Public Safety Bureau.
Under the authority vested...
Is Japan is taking over?
[NICHOLAS]
You know nothing about us!
Interlopers!
[DOMINATOR]
Crime Coefficient, over 380.
Enforcement mode:
Lethal Eliminator.
[NICHOLAS grunts]
[AKANE yelps]
[AKANE gasps]
[SOLDIERS chatter]
[SOLDIER grunts]
[SOLDIERS screaming]
[WEBER]
Boss!
[RUTAGANDA chuckles]
[AKANE gasps]
[AKANE]
Kogami.
You should go.
Take care of Chairman Hang!
[gunshot]
Right.
[helicopter sputtering]
[GINOZA]
Let's go!
[KUNIZUKA]
Inspector, are you all right?
[AKANE]
What are you guys doing here?
From the data your
pill bugs collected,
the Analyzer pieced
it all together.
The scanners in this city.
They were illegally altered.
This place is a nest
of latent criminals.
So, how exactly
did they pull it off?
The Identification
Friend or Foe
that was originally used
by the SEAUn military.
They embedded it
in the Hue scan.
Once somebody's
designated as friendly,
he's no longer subject to scans.
And so, as it turns out,
almost every MP officer
was using this loophole
to fake his Psycho-Pass.
They could really deceive
the Sibyl System?
And they did it in
such an obvious way.
[MIKA] What makes you think
they were deceiving Sibyl?
It was purposely
overlooked to set this trap.
From the start, Sibyl's aim
was the wholesale prosecution
of the Union
Military Police.
If you had realized that,
maybe we wouldn't have had
to go through all this trouble.
You always do
everything the hard way.
Don't you, Inspector?
What do you mean?
[MIKA] People like them
are so easy to read
that you shouldn't even
need a cymatic scan
to know what they're thinking.
Still, until the
infrastructure was in place
and ready to operate
the system in SEAUn,
utilizing them was
the only option.
But once Shambhala
Float gets completed,
their usefulness begins
to wear off pretty quickly.
And all that's left
is to gather proof
of their devious
scheme and crush them.
See, tracking down
a fugitive Enforcer
that was just a
pretext to send you in.
[AKANE]
So, what?
You're just okay with that?
Hey, "what needs to be
done is done by those capable."
But I know not everybody
is capable, Inspector.
[stammers]
All right, in that case,
let's go do what
needs to be done.
[DOMINATOR] Activating Dominator
Portable Psychological Diagnosis
and Suppression System.
User authentication,
Inspector Akane Tsunemori.
You are a valid user.
Inspector Shimotsuki, take
Sugo, Kunizuka, and Hinakawa
and control the situation here.
Right.
[AKANE] I'll go bring the
Chairman into custody.
Ginoza, you're coming with me.
Lead the way.
[KOGAMI groaning]
[groaning continues]
[KOGAMI groans]
[MAKISHIMA] This is hardly
the time to play hero.
[KOGAMI groans]
[MAKISHIMA] You should
get out of here yourself.
Otherwise, you'll be the
one who winds up caught.
So that's it. The compulsion
is too strong, right?
You see prey running away
and you have to chase.
How pathetic.
At your core, you really are
nothing more than a hunting dog.
I can't just let a man
who's trying to build up
his own army get away!
It's far too dangerous!
That guy's a joke and
his plan is all bluster.
You shouldn't take
him seriously.
Besides, he'll crash
and burn on his own.
What makes you
so determined?
Some noble sense of justice?
Is that it? I think not.
There are a lot of people
like Rutaganda in this world.
Killing him won't make
the slightest difference.
[MAKISHIMA] And yet
still, you pursue him,
putting your own life at risk.
Why are you so
obsessed with this one?
I thought killing you
would shut you up!
[KOGAMI grunts]
From here on. I have
to do this on my own.
And why is that?
Follow orders and
track down Kogami.
Do I have free rein?
To handle him how I see fit,
at my own discretion?
It's up to you.
[RUTAGANDA] You're not really
a detective, are you?
[KOGAMI]
I'm retired.
Didn't mean your job title.
I was talking about the way
you act. Your very nature.
[RUTAGANDA grunts]
--[RUTAGANDA growls]
--[KOGAMI groans]
[KOGAMI grunts]
[KOGAMI grunting]
[KOGAMI growls]
[KOGAMI panting]
[KOGAMI sighs]
[KOGAMI grunts]
[thud, crunch]
[DOMINATOR]
Crime Coefficient: Zero.
No enforcement action required.
Trigger will remain locked.
[AKANE] You're criminally
asymptomatic. I knew it.
[HANG]
So, you were aware?
[AKANE] A little birdie
mentioned something
about you being a doppelgnger.
But I bet he didn't
even have a clue.
[AKANE] The Japanese
ministries and agencies
are already full of
cyborg impostors.
[HANG]
True.
And Colonel Wong just
assumed that I was human.
A man who had undergone
some plastic surgery
to look like the Chairman.
Perhaps in time,
he would've suspected.
[HANG] After all, it
was only two days ago
when I met the man
for the first time.
[HANG]
In fact, truth be told,
I came to SEAUn on the
same flight as you did.
[HANG]
It's a logistical nightmare
rotating cyborgs into
a foreign nation.
So it's true.
Just like Inspector
Shimotsuki theorized.
Everything that's happened
has played out
exactly according
to your plan.
Sibyl System.
[DOMINATOR] Colonel Wong
was utterly determined
to move forward with
building Shambhala Float,
even if it meant directly
disobeying his superior,
Chairman Hang.
[DOMINATOR] Colonel Wong knew
that the unmanned weapons
provided by the Japanese
government as an incentive
could be the game
changer he needed
to gain control of all of SEAUn.
[DOMINATOR]
At the same time,
the idea of setting up
a model city overseas
that would use the Sibyl System,
was very appealing to us.
[DOMINATOR]
So then, it worked out
that what both sides
ultimately required
was an amenable chairman
who would give the project
his stamp of approval.
[AKANE] You intervened in a
country's domestic affairs.
And worse, you conspired
with a traitor
to assassinate their leader.
[AKANE] That's clearly
an international crime!
[DOMINATOR]
Strictly speaking.
There is no such thing
as "domestic affairs"
in this country anymore.
Corruption, discrimination,
religious and racial
confrontations.
[DOMINATOR]
As of two years ago,
SEAUn ceased to be recognized
as a federal nation.
[AKANE] All you cared about
was expanding Sibyl's control!
[DOMINATOR] Mundane desires
such as seizing territory
do not exist within us.
"The greatest happiness for
the greatest amount of people."
In the end, it depends entirely
on how you define "greatest."
You claim that our
endeavor here, is a crime.
However, a crime is a
deviation from the law.
[AKANE] The law isn't just
some guiding principle.
It can't be sustained
without the full support
and consent of the people.
You never even tried to get
the approval of the citizens,
when you swooped in and
started governing this place.
No, all you did
was con a dictator
into doing your bidding.
[DOMINATOR] These people
had only two choices:
Starve to death or be massacred.
So we needed to take action
as swiftly as possible
in order to provide them
with peace and refuge.
All that we did here,
was choose the most
effective solution for them.
[AKANE]
Chairman Hang. Step down.
Hold a free and fair election
to let the people
choose a new leader
and whether or not
to use the Sibyl System.
That decision should be
theirs, and theirs alone.
[DOMINATOR] You honestly believe
these people would reject us?
[DOMINATOR]
That they would ever abandon
the security of
this utopian city
after actually grasping
it in their hands?
[AKANE] The balancing
of freedom and security
is something that they have
to determine for themselves.
[AKANE]
So that they can embrace the law
as a positive force to uphold,
rather than just a set
of rules to be obeyed.
[HANG, DOMINATOR]
You insist on going through
the motions of this charade,
even though the outcome
of a public vote
would be entirely obvious.
I don't quite understand
your thinking on this.
[HANG, DOMINATOR] But perhaps
that is precisely why
our collective consciousness
is so interested in you.
Choosing how to form
a society, what it's like,
having a voice in shaping the
government that represents you.
People have fought and died
to achieve those rights.
[thunk]
[AKANE] Show some respect
for that history.
Okay, Sibyl System?
[thud]
--[RUTAGANDA roars]
--[KOGAMI grunts]
[BOTH grunting]
[RUTAGANDA groans]
Not too shabby,
Man from Japan.
[BOTH grunting]
[KOGAMI groaning]
[RUTAGANDA growls, chuckles]
[BOTH groaning]
[footsteps]
[BOTH grunt]
[ROTAGANDA groaning]
Freeze!
[RUTAGANDA grunting]
[GINOZA grunting]
[KOGAMI grunting]
[BOTH grunt]
[KOGAMI grunts]
[RUTAGANDA grunts]
[GINOZA panting]
[GINOZA]
Surrender!
[panting]
[RUTAGANDA slurping]
[KOGAMI gasps]
[KOGAMI grunting]
[GINOZA, KOGAMI panting]
[click]
[GINOZA grunts]
[BOTH grunting]
[KOGAMI sighs]
[GINOZA]
Kogami.
[KOGAMI grunts]
[GINOZA]
I owe you one.
[KOGAMI]
Gino.
Now, get outta here.
And don't ever let us see your
face again. Do you understand?
You've caused enough trouble.
For Inspector Tsunemori
and everybody around her.
And you're really
okay with this?
[GINOZA]
Hm.
I've learned to
compromise since you left.
[GINOZA grunts]
[KOGAMI grunts]
[KOGAMI groaning]
--[GINOZA] I'll settle for that.
--[KOGAMI groaning]
[KOGAMI sighs]
[HANG]
The day before yesterday,
we learned of an
attempted coup d'tat
plotted by the commandant of the
Military Police Colonel Wong.
This treasonous activity
has given me deep concerns
about our leadership in
the current government.
And so after taking some
time to reflect seriously
on my responsibilities,
I, Chuang Hang, hereby declare
my intention, to step down.
[HANG] --hereby declare
So what does
all that mean?
It means, we might not be
needing our guns anymore.
[BOY]
Oh.
She's a remarkable
woman. Seriously.
[GINOZA] What the hell
did you say to Hang?
[AKANE]
Oh, nothing.
I just told him to do what he
thinks is best for the country.
[GINOZA] All right,
well, it sounds like
you're still keeping some pretty
big secret to yourself here.
So, Kogami's still out
there. He got away again.
It was my fault.
My Dominator got destroyed,
so I was powerless to stop him.
Besides, he had a gun.
He never would've shot you,
even if it meant getting caught.
That's just not like him.
He's not the man we once knew.
He's nothing but
a common thug now.
I'm telling you,
that man isn't worth
giving another
second of thought.
Even if we can't punish him,
he'll wind up dying like a
dog in the streets anyway.
[AKANE]
Mister Ginoza.
You haven't changed.
You always put responsibility
for everything on yourself.
[HO] Excuse me. The preparations
for your departure
are complete,
Inspector Tsunemori.
[AKANE]
Mm.
That's it then. We'll
leave the rest up to you.
Ma'am.
[WOMAN ON RADIO]
At this moment,
we can report that approximately
40% of the ballots cast
in the election for
SEAUn chairman
have now been tabulated.
According to officials,
the former chairman,
--Mister Chuang Hang,
--[BOY yelps]
will likely resume that
post, as he already has
an overwhelming lead
--in the vote count.
--[sighs]
[AKANE] Soon, the true
value of this system
will be put to the test.